listen to me you who follow after
righteousness you who seek the Lord look
to the rock from which you were hewn and
to the hole of the pit from which you
were dug look to Abraham your father and
to Sarah who bore you for I called him
alone and blessed him and increased him
for the Lord will comfort Zion he will
comfort all her waste places he will
make her wilderness like Eden and her
desert like the Garden of the Lord joy
and gladness will be found in it
Thanksgiving and the voice of melody
listen to me my people and give ear to
me own my nation for law will proceed
from me and I will make my Justice rest
as a light of the peoples my
righteousness is near my salvation has
gone forth and my arms will judge the
people's the coastlands will wait upon
me and on my arm they will trust lift up
your eyes to the heavens and look on the
earth beneath for the heavens will
vanish away like smoke the earth will
grow old like a garment and those who
dwell in it will die in like manner but
my salvation will be for ever and my
righteousness will not be abolished
listen to me you who know righteousness
you people in whose heart is my law do
not fear the reproach of men nor be
afraid of their insults for the moth
will eat them up like a garment and the
worm will eat them like wall but my
righteousness will be forever and my
salvation from generation to generation
awake awake put on strength o arm of the
Lord awake as in the ancient days in the
generations of old are you not the arm
that cut Rahab apart and wounded the
serpent are you not the one who dried up
the sea the waters of the great deep
that made the depths of the sea a road
for the redeemed to cross over
so the ransomed of the Lord shall return
and come to Zion with singing with
everlasting joy on their heads they
shall obtain joy and gladness sorrow and
sighing shall flee away I even I am he
who comforts you who are you that you
should be afraid of a man who will die
and of the son of a man who will be made
like grass and you forget the Lord your
maker who stretched out the heavens and
laid the foundations of the earth
you have feared continually every day
because of the fury of the oppressor
when he has prepared to destroy and
where is the fury of the oppressor the
captive exile hastens that he may be
loosed that he should not die in the pit
and that his bread should not fail
but I am the Lord your God who divided
the sea whose waves roared the Lord of
Hosts is his name and I have put my
words in your mouth I have covered you
with the shadow of my hand that I may
plan to the heavens lay the foundations
of the earth and say to Zion you are my
people awake awake
stand up o Jerusalem you who have drunk
at the hand of the Lord the cup of his
fury you have drunk the dregs of the cup
of trembling and drained it out there is
no one to guide her among all the sons
she has brought forth nor is there any
who takes her by the hand
among all the sons she has brought up
these two things have come to you who
will be sorry for you desolation and
destruction famine and sword by whom
will I comfort you your sons have
fainted they lie at the head of all the
streets like an antelope in a net they
are full of the fury of the Lord the
rebuke of your God therefore please hear
this you afflicted and drunk but not
with wine thus says your Lord the Lord
and your God who pleads the cause of his
people see I have taken out of your hand
the cup of trembling
the dregs of the cup of my fury you
shall no longer drink it but I will put
it into the hand of those who afflict
you who have said to you lie down that
we may walk over you and you have laid
your body like the ground and as the
street for those who walk over